---
title: Task 6
category: Tasks
order: 6
brief: 
---

To be announced.

{::comment}

TODO: add information about reading the map and using it in Matlab.

## Introduction

The goal of this task is to introduce path planning implementing the Wavefront algorithm.

This algorithm is capable for finding the optimal route to the goal in the planning phase, i.e. before leaving the initial pose.
For this purpose it analyses the map and generates the path and in an off-line manner.
When finished, the robot simply follows the generated path. The generation of the path works as follows:

1. Set the cost of target position (cell) to 0
2. For a given cell (neighbouring with cells with assigned cost) find the neighbour with lowest cost `lc`, set cost of the currently analyzed cell to `lc+1`
3. Repeat step 2 for each cell until all cells (including the initial one) have assigned costs
4. Find the path starting from the initial cell to the destination, by selecting the neighbouring cell with the smallest cost

More detailed description of the Wavefront can be found in the EMOR lectures, as well as on [this website](https://www.societyofrobots.com/programming_wavefront.shtml){:target="_blank"}.

In this task you can run the simulation with the following command in the MATLAB console:
`run_simulation(@solution6, false, [goal_x, goal_y])`
where `solution6` is the control callback function you have to implement, and `[goal_x, goal_y]` is the position of the goal point.

It is recommended to plot the state of the Wavefront planner for debugging and visualisation purposes.

The planner should run in the initial state. The generated collision-less trajectory should be executed using the controller implemented in the ([Task 1]({{site.baseurl}}/04_tasks/01_task_1){:target="_blank"}). The robot should move to the subsequent cells on the path generated by Wavefront.

## Task requirements

* The robot is supposed to move in diverse environments

## Grading
You can get 5 points, including:
* Units conversion, proper transformations, plotting
* Wavefront implementation
* Trajectory execution

{:/comment}